Node.js: Javascript which executes on the server.

In node.js document object is not available as well as localstorage api is not available.

Node.js is a runtime environment for js which runs on server.

It runs on asynchronous nonblocking i/o model.

create a file of .js extension and then write js code and then in terminal write node filename to run the code.

A single thread can manage multiple connections which allows asynchronous nonblocking i/o model.

To check node.js installation/version wrtie in terminal : node --version

To check npm installation/version wrtie in terminal : npm --version

npm stands for node package manager which helps to manage node.js packages and their installation

Write in terminal npm init to create package.json file which contains all info regarding your project

write in terminal npm install express --save to install express package.

Before npm version 5 if we want to save a package as dependency then we used to write --save but now it is saved as dependency in default manner in npm newer versions

node_modules folder will be created after install command.

Whenever we send our project to someone or upload it on github we delete the node_modules folder as it takes a lot of space and it can be installed by npm install command

In node_modules folder, all dependencies from internet comes here after downloading and we can use them.

To globally install a package in any computer write in terminal npm install -g nodemon (where nodemon is the package name) 

After installing a package globally we can use that package in any project on our pc in which we want.

Nodemon is a command-line tool that helps with the speedy development of Node. js applications. 

It monitors your project directory and automatically restarts your node application when it detects any changes. 

This means that you do not have to stop and restart your applications in order for your changes to take effect.

20:00

----------------------------------------------------------DEV Dependency------------------------------------------------

There are some dependencies that we want to use at the time of development only and they are called dev dependencies.

npm install --save-dev nodemon

To uninstall the package simply write in terminal npm uninstall nodemon (here nodemon is the package name)

Package.json contains packages which you have added as dependency and package-lock.json 

There are some packages which are dependent on some other packages and a dependency tree is created which is stored in package-lock.json

fs module

os module

url module

simple js export import vs ES import export


Event Emitter Class for actions on event 

Http server using node js

Express JS code helps in creating servers with ease.

